Hello English learners, welcome back to another great lesson here with English
pot my name is Marco. And I'm Erica. And today we're bringing you an upper
intermediate lesson. A special lesson about the new president. Right, it's been a
hot topic in the US, the new president elect president Obama. Yes. So today we're
bringing you something that you might see at his inaugural address. That's true.
So Marco, can you explain this word in inaugural address? The inaugural address is the first
speech the president gives at the ceremony when he is officially president. Okay. All right.
So it says first presidential speech. Exactly. Mm-hmm. Great. So let's take a look at some
other words that we're going to find in the dialogue today in vocabulary preview.
Very vocabulary preview. All right. I'm vocabulary preview. Today we have two words. The first one is
Swear in. Swear in. Swear in. Swear in. We'll see this word in its past tense in the dialogue, right?
Swear in. Swear in. So it means. So to swear someone in is to officially give that person a very
important position, usually in government. Yeah. Yeah. And our second word is oath. oath. oath. oath.
oath. oath. And oath goes hand in hand with Swear in, right? That's right. When you swear
someone in, they make an oath. A promise, right? A promise. An official promise to carry out the duties
of that job. Right. So they promise that they will do their job. Okay. Great. So now let's listen to
our dialogue for a first time. Where are we? Well, we're actually watching a news reporter on TV.
She's in Washington and she's going to tell us all about what's happening. Right. So let's listen.
This is Madeline Wright for BCT News reporting live in Washington, D.C., where very shortly
the new president will deliver his inaugural address. Just moments ago, the president was sworn
into office following the United States Constitution, the president's war to announce to faithfully
the office of the presidency. And what exactly is going on now, Madeline? Well, Tom,
true to American tradition, the band has just played Hale to the chief, and the president has
been honored with the 21 guns salute. Now we're waiting for the president to take the stage
and deliver his speech. Tom is like the who's who of the political world here on Capitol Hill,
with dignitaries representing several different countries. What's the mood on the ground like Madeline?
In a word, the mood here is electric. The excitement in the air is palpable. I've never seen a
larger crowd here on Capitol Hill. The audience is shouting crying and embracing each other.
On this, a mood to historic day, you can feel the hope and the excitement in the air.
The 20th of January will go down in history as well. Oh, Tom, it looks like the president is about to begin.
Okay, some technical problems at the inaugural address. Yeah, I certainly hope this doesn't happen.
Well, if it does, you heard it first at English pod.
Predictors of the future here. Okay, let's take a look at language takeaway.
Language takeaway. On language takeaway today, we're bringing you four words. The first word is
deliver deliver. Deliver. Deliver. Like deliver a pizza. No. Let's listen. We got three examples
that will show the meaning of this word. Example one. Who's going to deliver the welcome speech?
Example two. I've been asked to deliver a presentation on the findings of our research project.
Example three. Dr. Rosen is delivering a lecture on macro economics.
Okay, so deliver a speech. Say a speech to say a speech. Yeah. So you wouldn't say say a speech.
You would say deliver a speech. Exactly. Okay. Okay, our second word for language takeaway. The who's who.
The who's who. The who's who. So this is a funny expression. Hey, it's kind of weird.
The who's who is the important people in a particular field, right? Right. So for example,
there was a party last night and the who's who of the film industry was there. Whoa, so all the
important stars. And direct. Yeah. Okay. You could also say the funeral was like a who's who
of the political world. Okay. So all the important political figures were at this funeral. Exactly.
Let's move to our third word. Dignitaries. Dignitaries. Dignitaries. Okay. We have some great
examples. You can understand what this word means. So let's listen. Example one.
Several important dignitaries were present at the opening ceremony including the president of
Brazil, the king of Spain and the pope. Example two. They're going to be a lot of foreign
dignitaries at the dinner. So basically, we can understand that dignitaries are really
important people, right? Right. Important political or religious figures. I see. All right.
Now our last word for language takeaway palpable palpable palpable palpable. When something is
palpable, it's so strong. You can feel it. Okay. So it's a very strong feeling. You can almost touch it.
Yeah. Like the excitement was palpable or the fear was palpable. Okay. Interesting word palpable.
Let's listen to our dialogue again and now let's try and listen to all these words we just talked about.
This is Madeline Wright for BCT News reporting live from Washington, D.C. We're very shortly
the new president will deliver his inaugural address. Just moments ago the president was sworn into
office following the United States Constitution, the president's war and oath to faithfully
the presidency. And what exactly is going on now, Madeline? Well Tom, true to American tradition,
the band has just played Hale to the chief and the president has been honored with the 21 guns
salute. Now we're waiting for the president to take the stage and deliver his speech. Tom is like
the who-two of the political world here on Capitol Hill with dignitaries representing several different
countries. What's the mood on the ground like Madeline? In a word, the mood here is electric.
Excitement in the air is palpable. I've never seen a larger crowd here on Capitol Hill.
The audience is shouting crying and embracing each other. On this, a most historic day,
you can feel the hope and the excitement in the air. In 20th of January, we'll go down in history as
we're, oh Tom, it looks like the president is about to begin. My fellow Americans.
Okay, so if you noticed in our dialogue, we have some really interesting phrases there. Yes.
So I think it's time for us to take a look at Fluency Builder. Fluency Builder, today we're going
to be looking at three phrases that are very interesting because we can change them a little bit
and form different patterns. Yeah, so the first phrase we have is in a word. In a word. In a word.
In a word. We use this expression when we want to describe something in one word. Right. Pretty
simple. It's really simple. Let's look at the pattern. We've got examples of how you could use this phrase.
Example one. In a word. The situation is serious. Example two.
What's it like there? In a word. It's amazing.
Okay, so in a word, this podcast is awesome. Amazing. Uh-huh. Okay. Okay, let's look at our second phrase
today. Go down in history. Go down in history. Go down in history. So this is a really common phrase.
I'm sure you guys have heard it. Yeah, basically something that is really important that everyone
will remember for a very long time. Let's look at this pattern with a few examples. Example one.
This is going to go down in history as the worst disaster the world has ever seen.
Example two. You'll go down in history as the best president we've ever had.
Example three. This day will go down in history.
Okay, so as you can see the pattern is we're using a superlative. That's right, the most, the best, the biggest,
the worst, right? And our final phrase in putting it together is my fellow Americans.
My fellow American. My fellow Americans. So obviously you can change this one up a little bit, hey.
Right, you can say my fellow co-workers. Uh-huh. My fellow citizens. My fellow family members. Yes.
So basically fellow just means like deer. Yeah. In some way. So similar. Similar. Yeah.
So we looked at some great vocabulary and phrases. And now let's talk a little bit about
these American traditions when electing a new president. Yes. Today in the studio we have J.P.
who's joining us. Hi, everyone. Hey, J.P. And he's going to be talking to us about these traditions.
Oh, I am. Okay. Yeah. What are we going to talk about? 21 guns salute. What's that all about?
The 21 guns salute is the military salute where they say, and now we will have the 21 guns salute.
So 21 soldiers are with their rifles. They go, and they all shoot them off the same time.
And they don't know why. I think it's a sign of respect, okay? Yeah, you'd respect those.
Well, I think in Europe they would do a cannon or something. Oh, right.
Can it salute? No, we'll just cannons. Maybe just one cannon. Maybe our European
listeners know the answer to that. Maybe. Okay. And what about this song, Hale, to the chief?
Do you know anything about that? I do not know anything about except that it's a march.
And I think it's Suza. I think John Phillips, who's eroded. And whenever the president
walks into a room, they play that song. Really? Yes. And I played it once.
For president Bush, the first one. I was a drummer. You did. And my marching band had to play that song for him.
Oh my god, you hear like famous. This was back in like 1986 or something. Was that even an election year?
In eight? Yeah. Well, you did play for the president. So you know. Yeah.
So JPD, have any other sort of traditional things that happen when the president becomes the president?
Well, I can tell you that Jimmy Carter, you know, when when he was elected president,
this motorcade was going down Pennsylvania Avenue. And he stopped the car and got out. Really?
What? Yeah. To walk. He wanted to walk down Pennsylvania. He wanted to walk down the, you know,
down the street. To be with the people. Yeah. I think so. And I think it made the, uh,
I think it made the secret service insane. And maybe the car smelled better. So I think that is my
memory of it. I might be confusing with the West Wing, but I'm not too much to, yeah, maybe.
When the president walks, it's a big deal. So JPD, you do anything special for the
inauguration ceremony. You know, I always take the day off to watch. You do. I love watching. I love,
you know, the, uh, I love the swearing in ceremony, the ritual of the, the, the, the, the speech.
All right, everyone. We're out of time. I hope you enjoyed this political lesson. And I hope you
have a happy inauguration day. Happy inauguration, everyone. Yeah. Okay.
Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Great. We're definitely going to take the day off to watch it
with JP. And, um, hopefully you guys can too. Well, thanks for listening everyone and until next time.
Goodbye. Bye.